CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to OpenFeature CLI

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OpenFeature CLI! This document provides guidelines and instructions to help you get started with contributing to the project. Whether you're fixing a bug, adding a new feature, or improving documentation, your contributions are greatly appreciated.

## Contributing New Generators

We welcome contributions for new generators to extend the functionality of the OpenFeature CLI. Below are the steps to contribute a new generator:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Start by forking the repository to your GitHub account.

2. **Clone the Repository**: Clone the forked repository to your local machine.

3. **Create a New Branch**: Create a new branch for your generator. Use a descriptive name for the branch, such as `feature/add-new-generator`.

4. **Add Your Generator**: Add your generator in the appropriate directory under `/internal/generate/generators/`. For example, if you are adding a generator for Python, you might create a new directory `/internal/generate/generators/python/` and add your files there.

5. **Implement the Generator**: Implement the generator logic. Ensure that your generator follows the existing patterns and conventions used in the project. Refer to the existing generators like `/internal/generate/generators/golang` or `/internal/generate/generators/react` for examples.

6. **Write Tests**: Write tests for your generator to ensure it works as expected. Add your tests in the appropriate test directory, such as `/internal/generate/generators/python/`. Write tests for any commands you may add, too. Add your command tests in the appropriate test directory, such as `cmd/generate_test.go`.

7. **Register the Generator**: After implementing your generator, you need to register it in the CLI under the `generate` command. Follow these steps to register your generator:

   - **Create a New Command Directory**: Create a new directory under `cmd/generate` with the name of your target language. For example, if you are adding a generator for Python, create a new directory `cmd/generate/python/`.

   - **Add Command File**: In the new directory, create a file named `python.go` (replace `python` with the name of your target language). This file will define the CLI command for your generator.

   - **Implement Command**: Implement the command logic in the `python.go` file. Refer to the existing commands like `cmd/generate/golang/golang.go` or `cmd/generate/react/react.go` for examples.

   - **Register Command**: Open the `cmd/generate/generate.go` file and register your new command as a subcommand. Add an import statement for your new command package and call `Root.AddCommand(python.Cmd)` (replace `python` with the name of your target language).

8. **Update Documentation**: Update the documentation to include information about your new generator. This may include updating the README.md and any other relevant documentation files. You can run `make generate-docs` to assist with documentation updates.

9. **Commit and Push**: Commit your changes and push the new branch to your forked repository.

10. **Create a Pull Request**: Create a pull request from your new branch to the main repository. Provide a clear and detailed description of your changes, including the purpose of the new generator and any relevant information.

11. **Address Feedback**: Be responsive to feedback from the maintainers. Make any necessary changes and update your pull request as needed.

### Integration Tests

To verify that generated code compiles correctly, the project includes integration tests, for example, for c#:

```bash
# Test the C# generator output
make test-csharp
```

This will:

1. Build the CLI
2. Generate a C# client
3. Compile the C# code in a Docker container
4. Validate that the code compiles correctly

Consider adding more integration tests for new generators.

## Setting Up Lefthook

To streamline the setup of Git hooks for this project, we utilize [Lefthook](https://github.com/evilmartians/lefthook). Lefthook automates pre-commit and pre-push checks, ensuring consistent enforcement of best practices across the team. These checks include code formatting, documentation generation, and running tests.

This tool is particularly helpful for new contributors or those returning to the project after some time, as it provides a seamless way to align with the project's standards. By catching issues early in your local development environment, Lefthook helps you address potential problems before opening a Pull Request, saving time and effort for both contributors and maintainers.

### Installation

1. Install Lefthook using Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install lefthook
   ```

2. Install the Lefthook configuration into your Git repository:

   ```bash
   lefthook install
   ```

### Pre-Commit Hook

The pre-commit hook is configured to run the following check:

1. **Code Formatting**: Ensures all files are properly formatted using `go fmt`. Any changes made by `go fmt` will be automatically staged.

### Pre-Push Hook

The pre-push hook is configured to run the following checks:

1. **Documentation Generation**: Runs `make generate-docs` to ensure documentation is up-to-date. If any changes are detected, the push will be blocked until the changes are committed.
2. **Tests**: Executes `make test` to verify that all tests pass. If any tests fail, the push will be blocked.

### Running Hooks Manually

You can manually run the hooks using the following commands:

- Pre-commit hook:

  ```bash
  lefthook run pre-commit
  ```

- Pre-push hook:

  ```bash
  lefthook run pre-push
  ```

## Templates

### Data

The `TemplateData` struct is used to pass data to the templates.

### Built-in template functions

The following functions are automatically included in the templates:

#### ToPascal

Converts a string to `PascalCase`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToPascal }} // HelloWorld
```

#### ToCamel

Converts a string to `camelCase`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToCamel }} // helloWorld
```

#### ToKebab

Converts a string to `kebab-case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToKebab }} // hello-world
```

#### ToSnake

Converts a string to `snake_case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToSnake }} // hello_world
```

#### ToScreamingSnake

Converts a string to `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToScreamingSnake }} // HELLO_WORLD
```

#### ToUpper

Converts a string to `UPPER CASE`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToUpper }} // HELLO WORLD
```

#### ToLower

Converts a string to `lower case`

```go
{{ "HELLO WORLD" | ToLower }} // hello world
```

#### ToTitle

Converts a string to `Title Case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToTitle }} // Hello World
```

#### Quote

Wraps a string in double quotes

```go
{{ "hello world" | Quote }} // "hello world"
```

#### QuoteString

Wraps only strings in double quotes

```go
{{ "hello world" | QuoteString }} // "hello world"
{{ 123 | QuoteString }} // 123
```

### Custom template functions

You can add custom template functions by passing a `FuncMap` to the `GenerateFile` function.

Commit message:

feat: introduce dagger for integration testing and ci (#100)
* feat: introduce dagger for integration testing and ci

Signed-off-by: Kris Coleman <kriscodeman@gmail.com>

* feat: make integration testing extensible and modular

my intention here is to make the pattern for integration testing more accessible.
let's abstract the integration test pattern itself into a framework to harness the boiler plate.
then reuse our csharp integration test code as our first integration-test.

Signed-off-by: Kris Coleman <kriscodeman@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Kris Coleman <kriscodeman@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to OpenFeature CLI

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the OpenFeature CLI! This document provides guidelines and instructions to help you get started with contributing to the project. Whether you're fixing a bug, adding a new feature, or improving documentation, your contributions are greatly appreciated.

## Contributing New Generators

We welcome contributions for new generators to extend the functionality of the OpenFeature CLI. Below are the steps to contribute a new generator:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Start by forking the repository to your GitHub account.

2. **Clone the Repository**: Clone the forked repository to your local machine.

3. **Create a New Branch**: Create a new branch for your generator. Use a descriptive name for the branch, such as `feature/add-new-generator`.

4. **Add Your Generator**: Add your generator in the appropriate directory under `/internal/generate/generators/`. For example, if you are adding a generator for Python, you might create a new directory `/internal/generate/generators/python/` and add your files there.

5. **Implement the Generator**: Implement the generator logic. Ensure that your generator follows the existing patterns and conventions used in the project. Refer to the existing generators like `/internal/generate/generators/golang` or `/internal/generate/generators/react` for examples.

6. **Write Tests**: Write tests for your generator to ensure it works as expected. Add your tests in the appropriate test directory, such as `/internal/generate/generators/python/`. Write tests for any commands you may add, too. Add your command tests in the appropriate test directory, such as `cmd/generate_test.go`.

7. **Register the Generator**: After implementing your generator, you need to register it in the CLI under the `generate` command. Follow these steps to register your generator:

   - **Create a New Command Directory**: Create a new directory under `cmd/generate` with the name of your target language. For example, if you are adding a generator for Python, create a new directory `cmd/generate/python/`.

   - **Add Command File**: In the new directory, create a file named `python.go` (replace `python` with the name of your target language). This file will define the CLI command for your generator.

   - **Implement Command**: Implement the command logic in the `python.go` file. Refer to the existing commands like `cmd/generate/golang/golang.go` or `cmd/generate/react/react.go` for examples.

   - **Register Command**: Open the `cmd/generate/generate.go` file and register your new command as a subcommand. Add an import statement for your new command package and call `Root.AddCommand(python.Cmd)` (replace `python` with the name of your target language).

8. **Update Documentation**: Update the documentation to include information about your new generator. This may include updating the README.md and any other relevant documentation files. You can run `make generate-docs` to assist with documentation updates.

9. **Commit and Push**: Commit your changes and push the new branch to your forked repository.

10. **Create a Pull Request**: Create a pull request from your new branch to the main repository. Provide a clear and detailed description of your changes, including the purpose of the new generator and any relevant information.

11. **Address Feedback**: Be responsive to feedback from the maintainers. Make any necessary changes and update your pull request as needed.

### Testing

The OpenFeature CLI includes both unit and integration tests to ensure quality and correctness.

#### Unit Tests

Run the unit tests with:

```bash
go test ./...
```

#### Integration Tests

To verify that generated code compiles correctly, the project includes integration tests. The CLI uses a Dagger-based integration testing framework to test code generation for each supported language:

```bash
# Run all integration tests
make test-integration

# Run tests for a specific language
make test-csharp-dagger
```

For more information on the integration testing framework, see [Integration Testing](./docs/integration-testing.md).

## Setting Up Lefthook

To streamline the setup of Git hooks for this project, we utilize [Lefthook](https://github.com/evilmartians/lefthook). Lefthook automates pre-commit and pre-push checks, ensuring consistent enforcement of best practices across the team. These checks include code formatting, documentation generation, and running tests.

This tool is particularly helpful for new contributors or those returning to the project after some time, as it provides a seamless way to align with the project's standards. By catching issues early in your local development environment, Lefthook helps you address potential problems before opening a Pull Request, saving time and effort for both contributors and maintainers.

### Installation

1. Install Lefthook using Homebrew:

   ```bash
   brew install lefthook
   ```

2. Install the Lefthook configuration into your Git repository:

   ```bash
   lefthook install
   ```

### Pre-Commit Hook

The pre-commit hook is configured to run the following check:

1. **Code Formatting**: Ensures all files are properly formatted using `go fmt`. Any changes made by `go fmt` will be automatically staged.

### Pre-Push Hook

The pre-push hook is configured to run the following checks:

1. **Documentation Generation**: Runs `make generate-docs` to ensure documentation is up-to-date. If any changes are detected, the push will be blocked until the changes are committed.
2. **Tests**: Executes `make test` to verify that all tests pass. If any tests fail, the push will be blocked.

### Running Hooks Manually

You can manually run the hooks using the following commands:

- Pre-commit hook:

  ```bash
  lefthook run pre-commit
  ```

- Pre-push hook:

  ```bash
  lefthook run pre-push
  ```

## Templates

### Data

The `TemplateData` struct is used to pass data to the templates.

### Built-in template functions

The following functions are automatically included in the templates:

#### ToPascal

Converts a string to `PascalCase`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToPascal }} // HelloWorld
```

#### ToCamel

Converts a string to `camelCase`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToCamel }} // helloWorld
```

#### ToKebab

Converts a string to `kebab-case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToKebab }} // hello-world
```

#### ToSnake

Converts a string to `snake_case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToSnake }} // hello_world
```

#### ToScreamingSnake

Converts a string to `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToScreamingSnake }} // HELLO_WORLD
```

#### ToUpper

Converts a string to `UPPER CASE`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToUpper }} // HELLO WORLD
```

#### ToLower

Converts a string to `lower case`

```go
{{ "HELLO WORLD" | ToLower }} // hello world
```

#### ToTitle

Converts a string to `Title Case`

```go
{{ "hello world" | ToTitle }} // Hello World
```

#### Quote

Wraps a string in double quotes

```go
{{ "hello world" | Quote }} // "hello world"
```

#### QuoteString

Wraps only strings in double quotes

```go
{{ "hello world" | QuoteString }} // "hello world"
{{ 123 | QuoteString }} // 123
```

### Custom template functions

You can add custom template functions by passing a `FuncMap` to the `GenerateFile` function.
